# Feature Design Planning

<!---
Note: TODO comments are placeholders so the linter doesn't nag me for daring to have extra linebreaks
--->

Planning document for project feature design - **relevant to initial development period (pre v.1.0.0) only.**

## Structure

Overall structure of the project assumed to be as follows:

- Project consists of 4 general areas of development, and thus this design document will discuss each of these areas as seperate sections below. These areas consist of:
  1. [**Data Retrieval**](#data-retrieval)
  2. [**Automation of Backup**](#automation-of-backup)
  3. [**Data Storage**](#data-storage)
  4. [**User Interaction**](#user-interaction)
- Furthermore, at the end of this document ([here](#miscellaneous-considerations-and-further-work)) we will also consider miscellaneous considerations that do not fit in either of the above topics, as well as possible considerations for further post-release work to keep in mind during initial development.

## 1. Data Retrieval

- What data needs to be retrieved?
  - some subset of personal account data on letterboxd.com
    - Publically available data (don't want to have to handle security of user login data)
    - Data in general to be found at letterboxd.com/*account_name*
  - films watched
    - possible extra user data to grab per entry (may or may not be available):
      - date watched
      - rating (out of 5)
      - review
    - what degree of film info to include beyond just title?
      - director?
      - release date?
      - length?
      - average rating?
    - **Initial Choice:** Include director and release date info for film entries, initially pull just user entries with watchdate and rating if available, potentially add backup of reviews as well depending on constraints
  - Other account data:
    - Reviews
    - Created Lists
    - Favourites
    - Likes
    - Watchlist (films to watch in future for user)
  - **Initial choice:** Scrape films watched with entry data outlined above, as well as user watchlist. Potentially add reviews and user's lists in future. (Unknown as to what like data to scrape if any - films liked is logical addition but liked data generated by other users? (Lists, reviews, etc.) Will have to consider at future point)

- Need web scraper to retrieve the desired data from Letterboxd
  - Python web scraper
  - Choice of web scraping framework?
    - Scrapy, BeautifulSoup, Selenium?
    - **Initial choice:** Scrapy
      - Avoid need to deal with Requests/Urllib w/ bs4
      - More easily maintainable if project scale increases later
      - Easy to incorporate other frameworks later if desired
      - Selenium unnecessary (no JS interaction required)

## 2. Automation of Backup

<!---
TODO
--->

## 3. Data Storage

<!---
TODO
--->

## 4. User Interaction

<!---
TODO
--->

## Miscellaneous Considerations and Further Work

<!---
TODO
--->
